README_en.md, before:

# Zeek-Parser-OmronFINS

## Overview

Zeek-Parser-OmronFINS is a Zeek plug-in that can analyze communication using Omron FINS/UDP.

## Installation

### Manual Installation

Before using this plug-in, please make sure Zeek, Spicy has been installed.

````
# Check Zeek
~$ zeek -version
zeek version 7.0.0

# Check Spicy
~$ spicyz -version
7.0.0
~$ spicyc -version
spicyc v1.11.0 (7ddf6ce4)

# The path of zeek in this manual is based on the following output
~$ which zeek
/usr/local/zeek/bin/zeek
````

Use `git clone` to get a copy of this repository to your local environment.
```
~$ git clone https://github.com/nttcom-ic/zeek-parser-OmronFINS.git
```

## Usage

### For manual installation

Compile source code and copy the object files to the following path.
```
~$ cd ~/zeek-parser-OmronFINS/analyzer
~$ spicyz -o omron_fins.hlto omron_fins.spicy omron_fins.evt
# omron_fins.hlto is generated
~$ cp omron_fins.hlto /usr/local/zeek/lib/zeek/spicy/
```

Then, copy the zeek file to the following paths.
```
~$ cd ~/zeek-parser-OmronFINS/scripts/
~$ cp main.zeek /usr/local/zeek/share/zeek/site/omron_fins.zeek
~$ cp consts.zeek /usr/local/zeek/share/zeek/site/
```

Finally, import the Zeek plugin.
```
~$ tail /usr/local/zeek/share/zeek/site/local.zeek
... Omit ...
@load omron_fins
```

This plug-in generates a `omron_fins.log` by the command below:
```
~$ cd ~/zeek-parser-OmronFINS/testing/Traces
~$ zeek -Cr test.pcap /usr/local/zeek/share/zeek/site/omron_fins.zeek
```

## Log type and description

This plug-in monitors all functions of FINS/UDP and outputs them as `omron_fins.log`.

| Field | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ts | time | timestamp of the first communication |
| uid | string | unique ID for this connection |
| id.orig_h | addr | source IP address |
| id.orig_p | port | source port number |
| id.resp_h | addr | destination IP address  |
| id.resp_p | port | destination port number   |
| proto | enum | transport layer protocol name |
| data_type | string | command or response |
| destination_network_address | string | destination network address |
| destination_node_number | string | destination node number |
| destination_unit_address | string | destination unit address |
| source_network_address | string | source network address |
| source_node_number | string | source node number |
| source_unit_address | string | source unit address |
| command_type | string | name of the command |
| number | int | number of packet occurrence |
| ts_end | time | timestamp of the last communication |

An example of `omron_fins.log` is as follows:
```
#separator \x09
#set_separator	,
#empty_field	(empty)
#unset_field	-
#path	omron_fins
#open	2025-03-28-16-30-42
#fields	ts	uid	id.orig_h	id.orig_p	id.resp_h	id.resp_p	proto	data_type	destination_network_address	destination_node_number	destination_unit_address	source_network_address	source_node_number	source_unit_address	command_type	number	ts_end
#types	time	string	addr	port	addr	port	string	string	string	string	string	string	string	string	string	int	time
1736159106.716243	CMR1Cj2J87pBDJu7Va	2.2.2.2	55007	1.1.1.1	9600	udp	command	0x00	0x64	CPU Unit	0x00	0x01	CPU Unit	multiple_memory_area_read	10	1736159106.717982
1736159106.716463	CMR1Cj2J87pBDJu7Va	2.2.2.2	55007	1.1.1.1	9600	udp	response	0x00	0x01	CPU Unit	0x00	0x64	CPU Unit multiple_memory_area_read	10	1736159106.718071
#close	2025-03-28-16-30-42
```

## Related Software

This plug-in is used by [OsecT](https://github.com/nttcom/OsecT).

Commit message:

update package manager in README_en

README_en.md, after:

# Zeek-Parser-OmronFINS

## Overview

Zeek-Parser-OmronFINS is a Zeek plug-in that can analyze communication using Omron FINS/UDP.

## Installation

### Installation with Package Manager

This plug-in is provided as a package for [Zeek Package Manger](https://docs.zeek.org/projects/package-manager/en/stable/).

It can be installed by executing the commands below.
```
zkg refresh
zkg install zeek-parser-OmronFINS
```

### Manual Installation

Before using this plug-in, please make sure Zeek, Spicy has been installed.

````
# Check Zeek
~$ zeek -version
zeek version 7.0.0

# Check Spicy
~$ spicyz -version
7.0.0
~$ spicyc -version
spicyc v1.11.0 (7ddf6ce4)

# The path of zeek in this manual is based on the following output
~$ which zeek
/usr/local/zeek/bin/zeek
````

Use `git clone` to get a copy of this repository to your local environment.
```
~$ git clone https://github.com/nttcom-ic/zeek-parser-OmronFINS.git
```

## Usage

### For installation using a package manager

`omron_fins.log` will be generated by the command below:

```
zeek -Cr /usr/local/zeek/var/lib/zkg/clones/package/zeek-parser-OmronFINS/testing/Traces/test.pcap zeek-parser-OmronFINS
```

### For manual installation

Compile source code and copy the object files to the following path.
```
~$ cd ~/zeek-parser-OmronFINS/analyzer
~$ spicyz -o omron_fins.hlto omron_fins.spicy omron_fins.evt
# omron_fins.hlto is generated
~$ cp omron_fins.hlto /usr/local/zeek/lib/zeek/spicy/
```

Then, copy the zeek file to the following paths.
```
~$ cd ~/zeek-parser-OmronFINS/scripts/
~$ cp main.zeek /usr/local/zeek/share/zeek/site/omron_fins.zeek
~$ cp consts.zeek /usr/local/zeek/share/zeek/site/
```

Finally, import the Zeek plugin.
```
~$ tail /usr/local/zeek/share/zeek/site/local.zeek
... Omit ...
@load omron_fins
```

This plug-in generates a `omron_fins.log` by the command below:
```
~$ cd ~/zeek-parser-OmronFINS/testing/Traces
~$ zeek -Cr test.pcap /usr/local/zeek/share/zeek/site/omron_fins.zeek
```

## Log type and description

This plug-in monitors all functions of FINS/UDP and outputs them as `omron_fins.log`.

| Field | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ts | time | timestamp of the first communication |
| uid | string | unique ID for this connection |
| id.orig_h | addr | source IP address |
| id.orig_p | port | source port number |
| id.resp_h | addr | destination IP address  |
| id.resp_p | port | destination port number   |
| proto | enum | transport layer protocol name |
| data_type | string | command or response |
| destination_network_address | string | destination network address |
| destination_node_number | string | destination node number |
| destination_unit_address | string | destination unit address |
| source_network_address | string | source network address |
| source_node_number | string | source node number |
| source_unit_address | string | source unit address |
| command_type | string | name of the command |
| number | int | number of packet occurrence |
| ts_end | time | timestamp of the last communication |

An example of `omron_fins.log` is as follows:
```
#separator \x09
#set_separator	,
#empty_field	(empty)
#unset_field	-
#path	omron_fins
#open	2025-03-28-16-30-42
#fields	ts	uid	id.orig_h	id.orig_p	id.resp_h	id.resp_p	proto	data_type	destination_network_address	destination_node_number	destination_unit_address	source_network_address	source_node_number	source_unit_address	command_type	number	ts_end
#types	time	string	addr	port	addr	port	string	string	string	string	string	string	string	string	string	int	time
1736159106.716243	CMR1Cj2J87pBDJu7Va	2.2.2.2	55007	1.1.1.1	9600	udp	command	0x00	0x64	CPU Unit	0x00	0x01	CPU Unit	multiple_memory_area_read	10	1736159106.717982
1736159106.716463	CMR1Cj2J87pBDJu7Va	2.2.2.2	55007	1.1.1.1	9600	udp	response	0x00	0x01	CPU Unit	0x00	0x64	CPU Unit multiple_memory_area_read	10	1736159106.718071
#close	2025-03-28-16-30-42
```

## Related Software

This plug-in is used by [OsecT](https://github.com/nttcom/OsecT).
